TRAVEL PATH OPTIMIZATION USING XGBOOST AND GENETIC ALGORITHM ON CAB TRIP DURATION DATASET
=========================================================================================

Optimizing routes is a difficult task that has been studied for many years. Machine learning can improve route optimization by using historical data to find the best routes. Traditional methods for optimizing routes are based on math, but they can be slow and hard to use for large problems. Machine learning is a new method for route optimization that can learn from historical data to find the best routes. This paper presents a ML-based approach to route optimization. The proposed approach is based on a combination of regression technique and genetic algorithm that is trained on a dataset of historical routes. The algorithm is able to learn the optimal route policy for a given set of constraints, such as the distances between locations, and the time windows. The proposed approach is evaluated on a real-world dataset of New York City taxi trips. The results show that the proposed approach can significantly improve the efficiency of route optimization, compared to traditional approaches. The proposed approach shall be a promising new direction for route optimization. It is able to find optimal routes for large-scale problems, and it is more scalable and efficient than traditional approaches.

1. GENETIC_ALGORITHM.ipynb introduces the Genetic Algorithm implementation to generate optimized travel route, using XGBoost as the regression to predict travel times.
2. Regression_models_after_spliting_dataset directory -> Contains the ipynb's of 20 regression models trained and tested after spliting the datasets into 3 parts.
